RETRO PLANNING
Retro planning / backward planningRetro planning, also known as backward planning or reverse planning.As the name suggests, this type of planning is built in reverse chronological order from a fixed deadline. This is especially useful when the delivery date is set from the start and cannot be moved!
Retro planning / backward planning
The reverse planning often takes the shape of a Gantt diagram. This chart is used to get a visual representation of the different steps and phases of the project, as well as the start and end dates of each task.
Advantages■Avoid missing deadlines: planning the development process from the deadline is the best way to plan and act in accordance with the time frame given to the project. ■Visibility: Planning in reverse gives you more visibility on your progress and the time left, thus making it easier for you to avoid delays and overruns.■Ensure the feasibility of the project: Backward planning allows you to gauge whether or not the objectives are realistically achievable in a given time. 
Advantages■Adapt the duration of specific tasks according to the remaining time: you can anticipate the leeway available to spend more time on high value-added tasks. You could also identify the deliverables on which you could afford to spend less time and effort. Overall, planning tasks becomes more granular and accurate.■Manage resources more effectively: this goes hand-in-hand with the precision gain on project planning. By assessing the time allowed for each task, you can also infer the number of resources required to complete the tasks on time.
Build your retro planningStart from the deadline, by positioning the last task to complete on the schedule on the D-Day, then the one before, and so forth (or back).In some cases, you may not have enough room left to plan the first few tasks. This means the ideal start date is already behind you: you should thus make a decision to hit the deadline nonetheless.•Review your priorities or the scope of the project,•Adjust the time frame and delays,•Add resources if possible.Whenever possible, try to include some leeway into your estimates so you can stay on track even when problems arise along the project life cycle!
